I think you land people waste a lot of time wondering *why*. Winter comes and you can't wait for summer, summer comes and you live in dread of winter. That's why you never tire of traveling, always chasing someplace far away where it's always summer. Doesn't sound like a good bet to me. ——1900

It was like lightning hit me, because I hear the voice. The voice of the sea. I never heard it. The voice of the sea it is like a shout. A shout ,big and strong, creaming and screaming. And the thing it was screaming was: You----.  With shit instead of brains. *Life is immense*, can you understand that? *Immense*! I never think of it that way. A revolution was in my head. That's how I suddenly decided to change my life. Change life. Start fresh. —— Italian Guy

I left the Virginian on August 21st, 1933, with my leave papers and back pay, everything in order. I knew that sooner or later I'd have been through with the ocean, so that's what I did. I heard no more about 1900 or the Virginian, not that I ever forgot them. ——Max

All that city, you just couldn't see an end to it. It wasn't what I saw that stopped me, Max. It was what I didn't see. In all that sprawling city, there was everything except an end. How do you do it down there? How do you choose just one? One woman, one house, one piece of land to call your own, one landscape to look at, one way to die. All that world just weighing down to you. Land is a ship too big for me. It's a woman to beautiful, it's a voyage too long, perfume too strong. It's music I don't know how to make.  ——1900